README.md, before:

# Log++ Logging framework

## Features

- Framework to standardize ros and glog output at compile time.
- Uses ros/glog's native log calls depending on selected mode.
- All log calls are thread-safe.
- Lightweight with performance in mind
- Header only
- Recommended to use with C++17, but also works with C++11 when compiling with GCC.

## Example

`src/demo.cpp`
```c++
#include <log++.h>

int main(int argc, char **argv) {
  LOG_INIT(argv[0]);
  int foo = 5;
  
  LOG(I, "Foo: " << foo);           //Log++ syntax
  ROS_INFO_STREAM("Foo: " << foo);  //ROS syntax
  LOG(INFO) << "Foo: " << foo;      //Glog syntax
  return 0;
}
```

Output with MODE_DEFAULT:

```shell
INFO  Foo: 5
[ INFO] [1664445448.151401926]: Foo: 5
I0929 11:57:28.151427 1360708 main.cpp:8] Foo: 5
```

Output with MODE_LPP:

```shell
INFO  Foo: 5
INFO  Foo: 5
INFO  Foo: 5
```

Output with MODE_GLOG:

```shell
I0929 11:57:50.238454 1360823 main.cpp:6] Foo: 5
I0929 11:57:50.238514 1360823 main.cpp:7] Foo: 5
I0929 11:57:50.238536 1360823 main.cpp:8] Foo: 5
```

Output with MODE_ROSLOG:

```shell
[ INFO] [1664445486.584182057]: Foo: 5
[ INFO] [1664445486.584212352]: Foo: 5
[ INFO] [1664445486.584240476]: Foo: 5
```

## Installation

### Option 1: Copy the header
1. Copy the header file `include/log++.h` to your project.

2. Add the following line to `CMakeLists.txt` to select the desired mode for...

- a project:

```cmake
# Valid modes are: MODE_LPP MODE_GLOG MODE_ROSLOG MODE_DEFAULT
add_compile_definitions(MODE_LPP)
```

- a specific executable or library:

```cmake
target_compile_definitions(my_executable PRIVATE MODE_LPP) 
```

### Option 2: Add Log++ as a submodule
1. Add Log++ as a submodule with following command:
```shell
   $ git submodule add https://github.com/ethz-asl/lpp.git
```

2. Use Log++ like this in `CMakeLists.txt`:

```cmake
add_subdirectory(my_submodule_dir/lpp)
add_executable(my_executable main.cpp)
target_link_libraries(my_executable Log++)
```

# Usage

## Modes

- **MODE_LPP** Log++ Logging output.
- **MODE_GLOG:** Google Logging output. Calls abort() if it logs a fatal error.
- **MODE_ROSLOG:** ROS Logging output.
- **MODE_DEFAULT:** Disables Logging standardization. Messages are logged according to their framework.

## How severity levels should be used

- **Debug:** Everything too verbose during normal execution and can be ignored.
- **Info:** Everything that could be of interest during a normal execution, but could also be ignored.
- **Warning:** Things that may need attention, but are probably not dangerous.
- **Error:** Things that need attention and probably are dangerous if not handled.
- **Fatal:** Everything that should stop execution immediately.

> **Note for glog:**
>
> - When using with **MODE_ROSLOG** or **MODE_LPP**, the macros DLOG(severity) and VLOG() will get converted
> to debug severity.
>
> - When using with **MODE_GLOG**, the Log++ and Roslog debug macros LOG(D) and ROS_DEBUG() will get converted
> to DLOG(INFO).
>
> - Fatal log messages call abort(). This is only glog-specific.

## Miscellaneous

To keep the possibility to add or remove Log++ later, it is best practice to include Log++ like this:

```c++
#if __has_include("log++.h")
#include "log++.h"
#else
#include <glog/logging.h>
#endif
```

## Log++ Syntax

Log++ provides its own log functions, if you want to use Log++ as the base logging framework

### Default logging

```c++
int foo = 1;
int bar = 3;
LOG(I, "Values: " << foo " " << bar);
```

### Conditional logging

```c++
int foo = 1;
int bar = 3;
LOG(I, foo != bar, "Values: " << foo << " " << bar)
```

### Occasional logging

```c++
int foo = 1;
int bar = 3;

for (int i = 0; i < 50; i++) {
  LOG_EVERY(I, 20, "Values: " << foo << " " << bar) // Log every 20 calls.
}
```

### Logging first N occurrences

```c++
int foo = 1;
int bar = 3;

for (int i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  LOG_FIRST(I, 5, "Values: " << foo << " " << bar) //Log first 5 calls.
}
```

## Overview of logging methods

| Method                 | Log++           | Glog                   | ROS                       | 
|------------------------|-----------------|------------------------|---------------------------|
| Default logging        | LOG(I)          | LOG(INFO)              | ROS_INFO()                |
| Conditional logging    | LOG(I, COND)    | LOG_IF(INFO, COND)     | ROS_INFO_COND()           |
| Occasional logging     | LOG_EVERY(I, N) | LOG_EVERY_N(INFO, N)   | -                         |
| Timed logging          | LOG_TIMED(I, T) | LOG_EVERY_T(INFO, T)   | ROS_INFO_THROTTLE()       |
| First N occurrences    | LOG_FIRST(I, N) | LOG_FIRST_N(INFO, N)   | ROS_INFO_ONCE() (only 1)  |
| Log to vector\<string> | -               | LOG_STRING(INFO, &vec) | -                         |

# Roadmap
- Implement ROS_INFO_NAMED()
- Customizable Log++ output

# Testing

- All modes (default, glog, lpp, roslog) have a separate test suite
- All severity levels (Debug, Info, Warning, Error, Fatal)
- All logging methods (Default, Conditional, Occasional, Timed, First N occurrences)
- Tests must run in debug mode in order to test debug log output

Naming Convention:

```c++
TEST(<mode>_<LoggingMethod>, <mode>_syntax_severity_<severity>) {
  //Test logic
}
```

Notes for test suites:

- lpp: Test whole string with ASSERT_EQ()
- glog: Test first char, isSubstring(log_message) and isSubstring(file_name)
- roslog: Test whole string with removeNumbersFromString(log_message)
- All: Use LPP_CAPTURE macros to suppress or capture stdout/stderr

Commit message:

Added docs how to update Log++ as a submodule

README.md, after:

# Log++ Logging framework

## Features

- Framework to standardize ros and glog output at compile time.
- Uses ros/glog's native log calls depending on selected mode.
- All log calls are thread-safe.
- Lightweight with performance in mind
- Header only
- Recommended to use with C++17, but also works with C++11 when compiling with GCC.

## Example

`src/demo.cpp`
```c++
#include <log++.h>

int main(int argc, char **argv) {
  LOG_INIT(argv[0]);
  int foo = 5;
  
  LOG(I, "Foo: " << foo);           //Log++ syntax
  ROS_INFO_STREAM("Foo: " << foo);  //ROS syntax
  LOG(INFO) << "Foo: " << foo;      //Glog syntax
  return 0;
}
```

Output with MODE_DEFAULT:

```shell
INFO  Foo: 5
[ INFO] [1664445448.151401926]: Foo: 5
I0929 11:57:28.151427 1360708 main.cpp:8] Foo: 5
```

Output with MODE_LPP:

```shell
INFO  Foo: 5
INFO  Foo: 5
INFO  Foo: 5
```

Output with MODE_GLOG:

```shell
I0929 11:57:50.238454 1360823 main.cpp:6] Foo: 5
I0929 11:57:50.238514 1360823 main.cpp:7] Foo: 5
I0929 11:57:50.238536 1360823 main.cpp:8] Foo: 5
```

Output with MODE_ROSLOG:

```shell
[ INFO] [1664445486.584182057]: Foo: 5
[ INFO] [1664445486.584212352]: Foo: 5
[ INFO] [1664445486.584240476]: Foo: 5
```

## Installation

### Option 1: Copy the header
1. Copy the header file `include/log++.h` to your project.

2. Add the following line to `CMakeLists.txt` to select the desired mode for...

- a project:

```cmake
# Valid modes are: MODE_LPP MODE_GLOG MODE_ROSLOG MODE_DEFAULT
add_compile_definitions(MODE_LPP)
```

- a specific executable or library:

```cmake
target_compile_definitions(my_executable PRIVATE MODE_LPP) 
```

### Option 2: Add Log++ as a submodule
1. Add Log++ as a submodule with following command:
```shell
   $ git submodule add https://github.com/ethz-asl/lpp.git
```

2. Use Log++ like this in `CMakeLists.txt`:

```cmake
add_subdirectory(my_submodule_dir/lpp)
add_executable(my_executable main.cpp)
target_link_libraries(my_executable Log++)
```

3. To update Log++ to the latest commit, execute following commands:

(From submodule directory)
```shell
$ git pull origin master
git add .
```

# Usage

## Modes

- **MODE_LPP** Log++ Logging output.
- **MODE_GLOG:** Google Logging output. Calls abort() if it logs a fatal error.
- **MODE_ROSLOG:** ROS Logging output.
- **MODE_DEFAULT:** Disables Logging standardization. Messages are logged according to their framework.

## How severity levels should be used

- **Debug:** Everything too verbose during normal execution and can be ignored.
- **Info:** Everything that could be of interest during a normal execution, but could also be ignored.
- **Warning:** Things that may need attention, but are probably not dangerous.
- **Error:** Things that need attention and probably are dangerous if not handled.
- **Fatal:** Everything that should stop execution immediately.

> **Note for glog:**
>
> - When using with **MODE_ROSLOG** or **MODE_LPP**, the macros DLOG(severity) and VLOG() will get converted
> to debug severity.
>
> - When using with **MODE_GLOG**, the Log++ and Roslog debug macros LOG(D) and ROS_DEBUG() will get converted
> to DLOG(INFO).
>
> - Fatal log messages call abort(). This is only glog-specific.

## Miscellaneous

To keep the possibility to add or remove Log++ later, it is best practice to include Log++ like this:

```c++
#if __has_include("log++.h")
#include "log++.h"
#else
#include <glog/logging.h>
#endif
```

## Log++ Syntax

Log++ provides its own log functions, if you want to use Log++ as the base logging framework

### Default logging

```c++
int foo = 1;
int bar = 3;
LOG(I, "Values: " << foo " " << bar);
```

### Conditional logging

```c++
int foo = 1;
int bar = 3;
LOG(I, foo != bar, "Values: " << foo << " " << bar)
```

### Occasional logging

```c++
int foo = 1;
int bar = 3;

for (int i = 0; i < 50; i++) {
  LOG_EVERY(I, 20, "Values: " << foo << " " << bar) // Log every 20 calls.
}
```

### Logging first N occurrences

```c++
int foo = 1;
int bar = 3;

for (int i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  LOG_FIRST(I, 5, "Values: " << foo << " " << bar) //Log first 5 calls.
}
```

## Overview of logging methods

| Method                 | Log++           | Glog                   | ROS                       | 
|------------------------|-----------------|------------------------|---------------------------|
| Default logging        | LOG(I)          | LOG(INFO)              | ROS_INFO()                |
| Conditional logging    | LOG(I, COND)    | LOG_IF(INFO, COND)     | ROS_INFO_COND()           |
| Occasional logging     | LOG_EVERY(I, N) | LOG_EVERY_N(INFO, N)   | -                         |
| Timed logging          | LOG_TIMED(I, T) | LOG_EVERY_T(INFO, T)   | ROS_INFO_THROTTLE()       |
| First N occurrences    | LOG_FIRST(I, N) | LOG_FIRST_N(INFO, N)   | ROS_INFO_ONCE() (only 1)  |
| Log to vector\<string> | -               | LOG_STRING(INFO, &vec) | -                         |

# Roadmap
- Implement ROS_INFO_NAMED()
- Customizable Log++ output

# Testing

- All modes (default, glog, lpp, roslog) have a separate test suite
- All severity levels (Debug, Info, Warning, Error, Fatal)
- All logging methods (Default, Conditional, Occasional, Timed, First N occurrences)
- Tests must run in debug mode in order to test debug log output

Naming Convention:

```c++
TEST(<mode>_<LoggingMethod>, <mode>_syntax_severity_<severity>) {
  //Test logic
}
```

Notes for test suites:

- lpp: Test whole string with ASSERT_EQ()
- glog: Test first char, isSubstring(log_message) and isSubstring(file_name)
- roslog: Test whole string with removeNumbersFromString(log_message)
- All: Use LPP_CAPTURE macros to suppress or capture stdout/stderr
